is having a digital marketing
certification really important
should you abandon the idea of getting a
digital marketing certification should
you spend hundreds or thousands of
dollars to get a certification so you
can enter the market
can you even learn digital marketing
through courses
that's a lot of questions that people
have when it comes to getting started
with digital marketing and making the
wrong decision could mean wasting a lot
of money or time so let's see whether or
not this is something that's worth
considering to your own situation
the first question that you should ask
yourself is why would you need to get a
degree do you want to get a job do you
want to run your own online business do
you want to start an agency do you want
to work as a freelancer the problem with
certifications is when you're learning
from people that are not in the trenches
you're getting this piece of paper that
teaches you fundamentals but it doesn't
actually teach you how to implement and
get the results
even when you do have marketing
education you still need to be
accountable for your own training and
experiences
marketing is based on results all the
theoretical knowledge on the earth won't
save you if you can't deliver results
for the products that you're working on
if you want to get a job you need to
know if the kind of job that you want
requires any sort of certification if
you want to start your own business you
probably don't need to have any form of
certification you can just learn as you
go or learn from watching youtube videos
learning in the trenches for me is the
best way to learn pick one channel learn
the fundamentals start testing and try
out those tactics for at least six
months yes that seems like a long time
but that's the best way to learn
that includes if you want to start an
agency or just want to work as a
freelancer i started doing seo for
myself and my own websites then once i
got good enough then i started doing it
for other people i was making six
figures as a teenager i'm not trying to
brag i'm not saying that's great because
a few years later i lost all the money i
made but in essence learning and doing
it on myself and getting results for
myself allowed me to go to other people
and get them results as well in other
words you need to be accountable for
your own marketing and even your own
marketing education i would recommend
that you subscribe to the best marketing
blogs out there whether it's backlinko
or neilpatel.com become an active
professional in groups whether it's
facebook groups red or quora you should
also attend conferences because a lot of
the stuff they discuss online is not
discussed in person
seek out relevant marketing books
i would also study and dissect other
companies marketing so you can learn
from them you should use tools like
ubersuggest you can get competitive
intelligence for free you can also use
things like facebook ad library to see
what kind of ads your competition's
running
and also find a successful person in the
space to be your mentor that's a better
way to learn the certifications
and by creating tons of content within
that niche testing out your own
marketing and just implementing see what
happens that's one of the best ways to
learn now taking online classes and
getting certifications isn't bad but it
only gets you so far
it can get you a kickstart but you still
need to go out there experiment and try
on your own to do really well in other
words don't be lazy becoming a good
marketer is hard work a certification
won't get you to where you want it's
just a start and it's not a bad thing
but nothing replaces learning it and
trying to implement on your own website
that's the best way to learn